Associations Incorporation Act 2009


Statement of objects

of

Joostice

2013


Objects;

1.  The name of the association shall be ‘Joostice’.

2.  Joostice is an association formed in 2012 to support, through direct funding and other means, critical public interest journalism.

		2.a  ‘Critical’ is to be understood in context of need, the capacity of the undertaking to shape public discourse and the magnitude of the issue under examination.

		2.b 	‘Public interest’ is to be determined by the board and its members. ‘Public’ is to be understood in the broadest, global, terms.

3.	To achieve these objects, Joostice shall run commercial enterprises; including, but not limited to, the production and sale of fresh, cold-pressed juice.

4.	The aim of Joostice is to support individuals and organisations who undertake critical public interest journalism, providing funds from profits made through its commercial enterprises.

		4.a	To achieve this object Joostice may, at the discretion of its board and members, invest in the development of open-source tools useful to those undertaking public interest journalism, for example; anonymous publishing and encrypted communications systems.

5.	Recognizing that available funds shall be limited, Joostice shall allocate no greater than 30% of its total funds to any one particular group, individual or project unless a special resolution is agreed to by consensus.

6.	Any member of Joostice may nominate groups, individuals or projects for funding or support.

7.	Joostice shall make decisions on the allocation of funding by consensus of the board and its members.

8.	Joostice shall be transparent in all its financial dealings, unless such transparency would pose a threat to life or liberty.

9.	Joostice is not aligned to any religious or political groups. Membership is inclusive. Members may hold disparate political and religious views.

10.	All administrative costs and other expenses not directly achieving these objects should approach 0%. Joostice shall not become another useless NGO.

11.	Joostice shall engage in business ethically and sustainably, insisting on the same throughout its entire supply chain.

12.	Joostice shall operate as a consensus democracy for important decisions and a dictatorship for its day-to-day operations.

13.	Joostice may lobby governments and parliaments to repeal any laws that jeopardize press freedoms or have the practicable effects of stifling dissent, and will promote laws that protect whistleblowers, journalists and the freedom of the press.

14.	To the extent that it is consistent with these objects, Joostice may heed requests for assistance from groups and individuals undertaking activities that promote freedom, peace, justice, and human dignity.

15.	Joostice will not seek or accept funding from any government body or corporation.

16.	Joostice accepts the financial and moral obligations to promote its objects.
